Module 4: Offering Microsoft Azure Stack Resources

Lab: Managing Offers and Plans in Microsoft Azure Stack
-------------------------------------------------------

Scenario

To provide cloud services to Contoso’s customers, you must create a number of
plans and offers in Azure Stack. You must provide the ability for tenants to
provision their own virtual machines. In addition, there is a third-party
application that you must make available in the Azure Stack Marketplace. To
facilitate this, you must also create and publish a new Marketplace item.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create and configure a plan by using the Microsoft Azure Stack Portal.

-   Create and configure an offer by using the Azure Stack Portal.

-   Subscribe to an offer in Azure Stack.

-   Configure the Azure Stack Marketplace.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 60 minutes

**Host Computer:** MAS-HOST01

**User Name:** AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create and configure a plan by using the Microsoft Azure Stack Portal.

-   Create and configure an offer by using the Azure Stack Portal.

-   Subscribe to an offer in Azure Stack.

-   Configure the Azure Stack Marketplace.

### Exercise 1: Configuring Plans

Scenario

To provide Contoso’s customers the ability to provision their own virtual
machines, you must first create a plan. The plan will include the necessary
Storage, Network, and Compute services that are required when provisioning
virtual machines. You must also create an add-on plan that you can use to
increase the number of virtual machines deployed per tenant.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Creating a Plan

2. Creating an Add-On Plan

####   Task 1: Creating a Plan

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                    |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                             |
| URL      | **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  Sign into the **Azure Stack Portal** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  From the **Plans** blade, create a new **Plan** with the following settings,
    all other settings should remain as default:

    -   Display Name: **Virtual-MachinesX**

    -   Resource Group: Create a new R**esource Group** named
        **RG-OffersAndPlansX**

    -   Services: **Microsoft.Compute, Microsoft.Network and Microsoft.Storage**

    -   Quotas: Accept default **Quotas**.

2.  Confirm the **Virtual-MachinesX** Plan is listed in the **Plans** blade. If
    it is not visible, click the **Refresh** button

####   Task 2: Creating an Add-On Plan

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location        | Value                  |
|-----------------|------------------------|
| Computer        | **MAS-HOST01**         |
| Tool            | **Azure Stack Portal** |
| Location        | **Desktop**            |
| Navigation Pane | **Plans**              |

1.  Create a new **Plan** with the following settings, all other settings should
    remain as default:

    -   Display Name: **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX**

    -   Resource Group: **RG-OffersAndPlanX**

    -   Services: **Microsoft.Compute**

2.  Create a new **Quota** for **Microsoft.Compute** and set the maximum number
    of virtual machines to **5**.

3.  Create the **Plan**.

4.  Confirm the **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX** Plan is listed in the **Plans**
    blade. If it is not listed, click the **Refresh** button at the top of the
    blade.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a plan that includes
the following services. Network, Storage and Compute. You should have also
configured the service quotas such that a maximum of five virtual machines can
be created per tenant.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Offers

Scenario

Now that you have created the plan and add-on plan for virtual machines, you
must now create the offer to which the tenants will subscribe. You must also
associate the add-on plan with the offer.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Creating an Offer

2. Adding an Add-On Plan to an Offer

####   Task 1: Creating an Offer

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location        | Value                  |
|-----------------|------------------------|
| Computer        | **MAS-HOST01**         |
| Tool            | **Azure Stack Portal** |
| Location        | **Desktop**            |
| Navigation Pane | **Offers**             |

1.  From the **Offers** blade in the **Azure Stack Portal,** create a new
    **Offer** with the following settings, all other settings should remain as
    default:

    -   Display Name: **Virtual MachinesX**

    -   Provider Subscription: **Default Provider Subscription**

    -   Resource Group: Use existing **RG-OffersAndPlansX** Resource Group

    -   Base plans: **Virtual-MachinesX.**

2.  Confirm the **virtual-machinesX** Offer is listed in the **Offers** blade.

####   Task 2: Adding an Add-On Plan to an Offer

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location        | Value                  |
|-----------------|------------------------|
| Computer        | **MAS-HOST01**         |
| Tool            | **Azure Stack Portal** |
| Location        | **Desktop**            |
| Navigation Pane | **Offers**             |

1.  Edit the **virtual-machinesX** Offer and then from the **Add On Plans** tab,
    add the **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX Plan** to the **Offer**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a new offer that
includes the virtual machines plan. You should have also associated the virtual
machines add-on plan with the offer.

### Exercise 3: Subscribing to an Offer

Scenario

Now that the plan and the offer have been configured, you must make the offer
available for tenants to subscribe to. You must first change the Offers Status
from **Private** to **Public**. This will make the offer available to tenants.
You must then sign in to the Azure Stack Portal as a tenant and subscribe to the
offer.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Changing an Offers Status

2. Subscribing to an Offer

3. Adding an Add-On Plan to an Offer

####   Task 1: Changing an Offers Status

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location        | Value                  |
|-----------------|------------------------|
| Computer        | **MAS-HOST01**         |
| Tool            | **Azure Stack Portal** |
| Location        | **Desktop**            |
| Navigation Pane | **Offers**             |

1.  Edit the **Virtual-MachinesX** Offer and use the **Change State** button to
    change the state to **Public**.

####   Task 2: Subscribing to an Offer

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                |
|----------|------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                       |
| Tool     | **Azure Stack Portal**                               |
| Location | **New InPrivate tab in existing Azure Stack Portal** |
| URL      | **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**         |

1.  Open an **InPrivate** Browsing **Internet Explorer** session and then browse
    to the **Tenant** portal **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

2.  Sign-in using the **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX** username with the
    password **Pa55w.rd**

3.  Navigate to **Subscriptions** and subscribe to the **Virtual MachinesX**
    offer. Configure the **Display Name** as **Virtual MachinesX**.

4.  After refreshing the **Subscriptions** blade return to the **Subscriptions**
    blade

5.  Confirm the **Virtual MachinesX** Subscription is listed.

6.  Do not close the **InPrivate** browsing window.

####   Task 3: Adding an Add-On Plan to an Offer

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                |
|----------|------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                       |
| Tool     | **Microsoft Azure Stack Portal**                     |
| Location | **New InPrivate tab in existing Azure Stack Portal** |
| URL      | **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**         |

1.  In the **Tenant Azure Stack Portal** open the **Subscriptions** blade and
    then open the **Virtual MachinesX** Subscription

2.  Use the **Add Plan** option to add the **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX Plan** to
    the **Subscription**.

3.  Close all pages and sign out of the **Microsoft Azure Stack Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have changed the Offers Status from
**Private** to **Public**. You should have then signed into the portal as a
tenant and subscribed to the virtual machines offer.

### Exercise 4: Creating a new Marketplace Item

Scenario

Contoso Ltd. has developed an application that the customers can use to check
availability and price of current stock. You must create and publish a
Marketplace item that tenants can use to deploy the application in their
environment.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Use an existing Marketplace Item

2. Package the new Marketplace Item

3. Publish the Marketplace Item in Azure Stack

4. Confirm the new Marketplace Item is available in the Azure Stack Portal

####   Task 1: Use an existing Marketplace Item

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                                                    |
|----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                                                           |
| Tool     | **Windows Explorer**                                                                     |
| Folder   | **C:\\ Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module04\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample** |

1.  Create a folder in the root of **C:** on **MAS-HOST1** named **StudentX**

2.  Navigate to **C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module04\\** and copy the **Azure
    Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample** folder to **C:\\StudentX**

3.  Rename the **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample
    \\SimpleVMTemplate** folder to **Contoso.StockCheck**.

4.  Navigate to **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
    Sample \\Contoso.StockCheck\\strings** subfolder folder and edit the
    **resources.json** file with **Notepad**

5.  Edit the third, fourth and fifth lines as shown below:

6.  "summary": **"Check stock availability and price",**

7.  "longSummary": **"This application can be used to check availability of
    Contoso's stock and also get an up-to-date price on each stock item",**

8.  "description": **"This application can be used to check availability of
    Contoso's stock and also get an up-to-date price on each stock item",**

9.  Save and close the **resources.resjson** file.

10. From the **Contoso.StockCheck** folder edit the **manifest.json** file with
    **Notepad**.

11. Edit the lines as shown below:

12. "name": **"StockCheckX",**

13. "publisher": **"ContosoX",**

14. "version"**: "1.0.0",**

15. "categories"**:[**

    **"ContosoX"**

    ]

16. Replace **X** in **Step 8** with your student number.

17. Save and close the **manifest.json** file.

####   Task 2: Package the new Marketplace Item

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                                                                                                 |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                                                                                        |
| Tool     | **Command Prompt (Administrator)**                                                                                    |
| Location | **C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module04\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample\\AzureGalleryPackageGenerator** |

1.  Open an elevated command prompt and navigate to **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack
    Marketplace Item Generator and Sample\\AzureGalleryPackageGenerator**.

2.  Type the following command followed by enter on the keyboard:

AzureGalleryPackager.exe package -m " C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item
Generator and Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck\\manifest.json" -o "
C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck"

1.  Close the command prompt window and confirm the
    **ContosoX.StockCheckX.1.0.0.azpkg** file has been created in the
    C:\\StudentX**\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
    Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck** folder.

####   Task 3: Publish the Marketplace Item in Azure Stack

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                  |
|----------|------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**         |
| Tool     | **Windows PowerShell** |

1.  Open an elevated **Windows PowerShell** prompt and type the following
    commands pressing enter after each command:

>   Import-Module C:\\AzureStack-Tools-master\\Connect\\AzureStack.Connect.psm1

>   Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStackAdminX -ArmEndpoint
>   "https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external"

\$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force

\$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
("AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX", \$Password)

\$tenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStackAdminX

1.  Sign into Azure Stack using the following Cmdlet:

Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName "AzureStackAdminX" -TenantId \$tenantID
-Credential \$Cred

1.  If a **Select Y to enable data collection [Y/N]** prompt opens, type **N**

2.  Type the following commends pressing enter after each command:

\$subscriptionid = (Get-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionName 'Default Provider
Subscription').SubscriptionId

Select-AzureRMSubscription -SubscriptionID \$Subscriptionid

New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name azurestackX -Location local

New-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName azurestackX -Name
azurestackstorageX -Type Standard_LRS -location local

Set-AzureRMCurrentStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName azurestackX
-StorageAccountName azurestackstorageX

\$StorageAccount = Get-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName azurestackX
-Name azurestackstorageX

\$GalleryContainer = New-AzureStorageContainer -Name gallery -Permission Blob
-Context \$StorageAccount.Context

\$AzureStackPackage = \$GalleryContainer \| Set-AzureStorageBlobContent -File
"C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck\\ContosoX.StockCheckX.1.0.0.azpkg"

Add-AzSGalleryItem -GalleryItemUri
\$AzureStackPackage.ICloudBlob.StorageUri.PrimaryUri.AbsoluteUri

1.  After entering the final command, confirm the **Status Code** returned
    displays **Created**.

2.  Close the **Windows PowerShell** window.

####   Task 4: Confirm the new Marketplace Item is available in the Azure Stack Portal

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                    |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                             |
| URL      | **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  On **MAS-HOST01,** open the **Azure Stack Admin Portal** and sign in using
    the **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdmin** account.

2.  Click **New** and then confirm the **ContosoX Marketplace** Item is now
    available

3.  Click the **ContosoX** Marketplace Item and review the information displayed
    in the blade that opens

4.  Close the **Azure Stack Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a new Marketplace item
for Contoso’s StockCheck application. You should have also published the
Marketplace item in Azure Stack. Finally, you should have confirmed that tenants
can select the new Marketplace item when they sign into the Azure Stack Portal.

>   **Question:** You have created a plan and offer in the Azure Stack Portal
>   for tenants to subscribe to. When a tenant opens the Azure Stack Portal and
>   attempts to get a new subscription, the new offer is not displayed. What
>   could be the reason for this?

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
