Module 3: Deploying Microsoft Azure Stack

Lab: Confirming prerequisites and installing Microsoft Azure Stack

### Exercise 1: Confirming the Prerequisites

####   Task 1: Confirm the CPU meets the requirements

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start**, then right-click **Windows PowerShell
    a**nd then More, then click **Run as administrator**.

2.  In the **User Account Control** dialog, click **Yes**

3.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console enter the following
    PowerShell command and press Enter:
    
```
Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor -Property Name,
SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions, VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled,
VMMonitorModeExtensions |
Format-List Name, SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions,
VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled, VMMonitorModeExtensions
```

4.  In the information that is returned, review the following:

-   SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions

-   VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled

-   VMMonitorModeExtensions

5.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

```
(Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor).Count
```

6.  Ensure the number returned is **2** or higher.

7.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

```
Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor -Property Name, SocketDesignation,
NumberOfCores, NumberOfEnabledCore, NumberOfLogicalProcessors | Format-List Name, 
SocketDesignation, NumberOfCores, NumberOfEnabledCore,
NumberOfLogicalProcessors
```

8.  Ensure the **NumberOfCores** for each CPU returned is **6** or higher.

9.  Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShel**l Console open.

####   Task 2: Confirm the number of drives

1.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console on **MAS-HOST01** enter
    the following **PowerShell** command and press Enter:

```
$DiskIndexes = Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_DiskPartition | 
Where-Object -FilterScript {$_.BootPartition -eq $true} | 
Select-Object -ExpandProperty DiskIndex
```

2.  This will obtain the **Disk Index** of the disk partitions that are part of
    the boot process, whether they be VHDX file or physical disk.

3.  Enter the following **PowerShell** command to see the Disk Indexes and press
    enter:

```
$DiskIndexes
```

4.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

```
Get-PhysicalDisk | Where-Object -FilterScript {$DiskIndexes -notcontains
$_.DeviceID} | Format-Table FriendlyName, OperationalStatus, HealthStatus,
@{Name="Size";Expression={($_.Size / 1GB).ToString() + " GB"}}
```

5.  This shows the disks that are not part of the operating system boot process.
    You should have at least 4 disks listed.

####   Task 3: Confirm the quantity of memory

6.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console on MAS-HOST01 enter the
    following **PowerShell** command and press Enter:

```
$Memory = (Get-Ciminstance Win32_OperatingSystem | 
Select-Object -ExpandProperty MaxProcessMemorySize) /1GB
```

7.  Enter the following **PowerShell** command to see the amount of memory
    installed and press enter:

```
$Memory
```

8.  To round the number, enter the following **PowerShell** command and press
    enter:
```
[math]::Round($Memory,0)
```

9.  This will display the amount of memory in **GB**.

10.  Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have confirmed the hardware on
which the Azure Stack Development Kit is to be deployed meets the prerequisites.

### Exercise 2: Confirm the installation was successful

####   Task 1: Ensure both the Tenant and Admin Portals are functioning

1.  On **MAS-HOST01,** open Internet Explorer.

2.  Browse to https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page that opens, click
    **More Services**.

5.  Under **Administrative Resources** click **Resource Providers**.

6.  In the **Resource Providers** blade, ensure the following **Resource
    Providers** are listed:

-   Compute

-   Health

-   KeyVault

-   Network

-   Storage

7.  Open a new tab in **Internet Explorer** and browse to
    **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

8.  In the navigation pane, click **More services**.

9.  Confirm the list of **Services** returned include the following:

-   Dashboard

-   Resource groups

-   All resources

-   Tags

-   Recent

-   Subscriptions

-   Marketplace

-   Resource explorer

-   Portal settings

-   Audit logs

10.  Close the **https://portal.local.azurestack.external** tab that was opened.

####   Task 2: Ensure no critical alerts are present in Azure Stack

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** portal on **MAS-HOST01**,
    click **More services**.

2.  Under **Administration** click **Region Management**.

3.  In the **local** blade that opens, click the **Overview** tab.

4.  Review the following sections and confirm there are no **Critical** alerts
    displayed:

-   Alerts

-   Updates

-   Resource Providers

5.  Sign-out of the **Azure Stack** Portal and then close **Internet Explorer**.

**Results**: After this exercise is complete, you will be able to determine if
the Azure Stack Development Kit has been successfully installed and is operating
as required.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
