Module 5: Microsoft Azure Stack and DevOps

Lab: Debugging and Deploying ARM Templates
------------------------------------------

Scenario

Contoso Ltd. has obtained some basic templates from the Azure Quick-Start
repository and wishes to test them on its Azure Stack deployment to determine if
the resulting infrastructure is suitable for the organization’s needs. These
templates include:

-   A virtual network

-   A virtual machine

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Install and configure Azure PowerShell.

-   Debug Azure Resource Manager templates in Visual Studio.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 45 Minutes

**Host Computer:** MAS-HOST01

**User Name:** AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Install and configure Azure PowerShell.

-   Debug Azure Resource Manager templates in Visual Studio.

### Exercise 1: Using Windows PowerShell to obtain API versions

Scenario

To test the deployment of the template with Azure PowerShell, you must install
the AzureRM and Azure Stack PowerShell modules on the server and configure them
to connect to Azure Stack. You should also obtain the API versions available on
the Azure Stack Development Kit installation for the Microsoft.Compute and
Microsoft.Stroage Resource Providers. These are required in order to reference
the correct API’s when debugging and deploying an ARM template.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Obtaining the Microsoft.Compute and Microsoft.Storage API versions

####   Task 1: Obtaining the Microsoft.Compute and Microsoft.Storage API versions

| Location | Value                                  |
|----------|----------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                         |
| Tool     | **Windows PowerShell (Administrator)** |
| Location | **Start**                              |

1.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console, enter the following
    PowerShell command and press Enter to import the required PowerShell Module:

Import-Module C:\\AzureStack-Tools-master\\Connect\\AzureStack.Connect.psm1

1.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration and add the Azure Administration environment to
    PowerShell. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

\$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force

\$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
("AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX", \$Password)

Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStackAdminX -ArmEndpoint
"https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external"

\$tenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStackAdminX

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to the
    Tenant environment:

Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName AzureStackAdminX -TenantId \$tenantID
-Credential \$Cred

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command to return the Subscriptions that are
    associated with the Tenant environment and press Enter:

Get-AzureRmSubscription

1.  In the returned information ensure the value of **SubscriptionName** is
    **Default Provider Subscription**.

2.  Enter the following PowerShell and press Enter to return the
    Microsoft.Compute API’s that are available:

(Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute).ResourceTypes
\| Where-Object -Property ResourceTypeName -EQ -Value virtualMachines \|
Select-Object -ExpandProperty ApiVersions

1.  Enter the following PowerShell and press Enter to return the
    Microsoft.Storage API’s that are available:

(Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Storage).ResourceTypes
\| Where-Object -Property ResourceTypeName -EQ -Value storageaccounts \|
Select-Object -ExpandProperty ApiVersions

1.  Close the **Windows PowerShell** Console.

**Results**: After completing this lab, you will be able to: Install AzureRM and
Azure Stack PowerShell from the NuGet repository. Configure Azure PowerShell to
connect to Azure Stack.

### Exercise 2: Debug an ARM Template with Visual Studio

Scenario

Now that Azure PowerShell has been installed, it is time to investigate the
Azure Resource Manager templates that have been sourced. One member of the
DevOps team has told you that there is an error in the Azure Resource Manager
template but they do not know where.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Debug the ARM Template

2. Review and update the Parameters File and validate the ARM template

####   Task 1: Debug the ARM Template

| Location | Value                                      |
|----------|--------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                             |
| Tool     | **Visual Studio 2015 (Administrator)**     |
| Location | **Start**                                  |
| Project  | **VirtualNetwork.deployproj**              |
| Location | **C:\\StudentX\\Module05\\VirtualNetwork** |

1.  Copy the **C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module05 folder to the C:\\StudentX
    folder.**

2.  Open **Visual Studio Community Edition** as an **Administrator**.

3.  Open the **VirtualNetwork.deployproj** file from
    **C:\\StudentX\\Module05\\VirtualNetwork**

4.  Save the project using the **Save All** option

5.  From **Solution Explorer** pane, open **azuredeploy.json**

6.  In the **azuredeploy.json** central pane, navigate to **line 81**

7.  Change the content of line 81 from:

"location": "[variables('AzureRegion')]",

To

"location": "[parameters('AzureRegion')]",

1.  Save the project.

2.  The **Template** is now valid.

3.  Do not close **Visual Studio**.

####   Task 2: Review and update the Parameters File and validate the ARM template

| Location  | Value                                  |
|-----------|----------------------------------------|
| Computer  | **MAS-HOST01**                         |
| Tool      | **Visual Studio 2015 (Administrator)** |
| Location  | **Start**                              |
| Pane      | **Solution Explorer**                  |
| Component | **azuredeploy.parameters.json**.       |

1.  In **Visual Studio** open the **azuredeploy.parameters.json** file.

2.  Add a new element in the parameters section with a name of
    **EnvironmentName** and a value of **QA**.

3.  Save the changes to the **azuredeploy.parameters.json** file

4.  Close **Visual Studio**.

5.  Open **Windows PowerShel**l

6.  In the **Windows PowerShell** Console enter the following PowerShell command
    and press Enter:

Import-Module C:\\AzureStack-Tools-master\\Connect\\AzureStack.Connect.psm1

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

Set-Location ‘C:\\StudentX\\Module05\\VirtualNetwork’

1.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration and add the Azure Administration environment to
    PowerShell. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

\$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force

\$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
("AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX", \$Password)

Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStack -ArmEndpoint
"https://management.local.azurestack.external"

\$tenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStack

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to the
    Tenant environment:

Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName AzureStack -TenantId \$tenantID
-Credential \$Cred

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command to return the Subscriptions that are
    associated with the Tenant environment and press Enter:

Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionName “Virtual MachinesX Subscription”

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name “RG-VNetX” -Location local

Test-AzureRmResourceGroupDeployment -ResourceGroupName RG-VNetX -TemplateFile
.\\azuredeploy.json -TemplateParameterFile .\\azuredeploy.parameters.json -Mode
Incremental -Verbose

1.  Close **Windows PowerShell**

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to debug ARM
Templates in Visual Studio, review and update parameter files for deployments
and validate ARM Templates prior to deployment.

>   **Question:** Can you parameterize all the values required by an Azure
>   Resource Manager template?

>   ©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

>   The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons
>   Attribution 3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content
>   contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks,
>   logos, images, etc.) are not included within the Creative Commons license
>   grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
>   intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this
>   document for your internal, reference purposes.

>   is document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
>   document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
>   without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
>   illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
>   inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to
>   the information provided here.
