Module 4: Offering Microsoft Azure Stack Resources

Lab: Managing Offers and Plans in Microsoft Azure Stack

### Exercise 1: Configuring Plans

####   Task 1: Creating a Plan

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page that opens, click
    **Plans.**

5.  Click **Add**.

6.  In the **New Plan** blade that opens complete the form using the following
    settings, all other settings should remain default:

-   Display Name: Virtual-MachinesX

-   Resource Group: **Create new**

-   Resource Group Name: **RG-OffersAndPlansX**

-   Services: **Microsoft.Storage, Microsoft.Network, and Microsoft.Compute**

-   Quotas: Select **Default Quota** for each of the above services.

7.  Click **Create** to create the **Plan**.

8.  In the **Plans** blade that opens confirm the **Virtual-MachinesX** Plan is
    listed. If it is not listed, click the **Refresh** button at the top of the
    blade.

####   Task 2: Creating an Add-On Plan

1.  In the **Azure Stack Portal**, from the navigation pane click **Plans**.

2.  Click **Add**.

3.  In the **New Plan** blade that opens complete the form using the following
    settings, all other settings should remain default:

-   Display Name: **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX**

-   Resource Group: **Use existing**

-   Resource Group Name: **RG-OffersAndPlansX**

-   Services: **Microsoft.Compute**

4.  Click **Quotas**.

5.  Click **Microsoft.Compute (local)** and then click **Create new quota.**

6.  In the **Name** box, type **Additional-VMsX**.

7.  In the **Max number of virtual machines** box, remove **50** and then type
    **5**.

8.  Click **OK** and then click **Additional-VMsX** to select this **Quota**.
    Then click **OK**.

9.  Click **Create** to create the **Plan**.

10.  In the **Plans** blade that opens confirm the **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX**
    Plan is listed. If it is not listed, click the **Refresh** button at the top
    of the blade.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a plan that includes
the following services: Network, Storage and Compute. You should have also
configured the service quotas such that a maximum of five virtual machines can
be created per tenant.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Offers

####   Task 1: Creating an Offer

1.  In the **Azure Stack Portal** on **MAS-HOST01,** from the navigation pane
    click **Offers**.

2.  Click **Add**.

3.  In the **New offer** blade that opens configure the following settings. All
    other settings should remain as default:

-   Display Name: **Virtual MachinesX**

-   Provider Subscription: **Default Provider Subscription**

-   Resource Group: **Use existing**

-   Resource Group Name: **RG-OffersAndPlansX**

-   Base plans: **virtual-machinesX.**

4.  Click **Create** to create the **Offer**.

5.  In the **Offers** blade that opens, confirm the **virtual-machinesX** Offer
    is listed. If it is not listed, click the **Refresh** button at the top of
    the blade.

####   Task 2: Adding an Add-On Plan to an Offer

1.  In the **Azure Stack Portal** on **MAS-HOST01**, from the navigation pane,
    click **Offers**.

2.  In the **Offers** blade that opens, click **virtual-machinesX**.

3.  In the **virtual-machinesX** page that opens, scroll down and then click
    **Add on plans**.

4.  Click **Add**.

5.  In the **Plan** blade that opens click **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX** and then
    click **Select**.

6.  Close the **virtual-machinesX Add On Plans** page.

7.  Close the **Offers** blade.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a new offer that
includes the virtual machines plan. You should have also associated the virtual
machines add-on plan with the offer.

### Exercise 3: Subscribing to an Offer

####   Task 1: Changing an Offers Status

1.  In the **Azure Stack Portal on MAS-HOST01**, from the navigation pane, click
    **Offers**.

2.  In the **Offers** blade that opens click **virtual-machinesX**.

3.  From the top of the blade, click **Change State**.

4.  In the **Change State** drop-down list click **Public**.

5.  Close the **virtual-machinesX** blade.

####   Task 2: Subscribing to an Offer

1.  In the **Azure Stack Portal**, click the settings button on the toolbar in Internet Explorer.

2.  Navigate to **Safety** and then click **InPrivate Browsing**.

3.  In the **InPrivate address** bar type
    **https://portal.local.azurestack.external** and then press Enter.

4.  In the **Sign in** dialog, in **Username** box type
    **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX** in the **Password** box type **Pa55w.rd**.

5.  Click **Sign in**.

6.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack** Portal that opens navigate to **More
    Services**, and click on **Subscriptions**.

7.  In the **Subscriptions** blade, click **Add**.

8.  In the **Get a Subscription** blade that opens click **Select an Offer**.

9.  In the **Choose an Offer** page that opens click **Virtual MachinesX**.

10. Click **Create** and then click **Refresh**.

11. Click **More Services** and then click **Subscriptions**.

12. Confirm the **Virtual MachinesX** Subscription is listed. If it is not
    listed, press **F5** to refresh the entire browser window.

13. Do not close the **InPrivate browsing** window.

####   Task 3: Adding an Add-On Plan to an Offer

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack** Portal navigate to the **Subscriptions**
    blade.

2.  In the **Subscriptions** blade that opens click **Virtual MachinesX**.

3.  In the **Virtual MachinesX** blade that opens, click **Add Plan**.

4.  In the **Add Plan** blade that opens click **Virtual-Machines-Add-OnX**.

5.  Confirm in the **Virtual-Machines** blade that the **Add-on Plans** tile now
    shows **1**.

6.  Close the **Virtual-MachinesX** page.

7.  Close the **Subscriptions** blade.

8.  Sign out of the **Microsoft Azure Stack** Portal.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have changed the Offers Status from
**Private** to **Public**. You should have then signed into the portal as a
tenant and subscribed to the virtual machines offer.

### Exercise 4: Creating a new Marketplace Item

####   Task 1: Use an existing Marketplace Item

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, create a folder in the **C:** named **StudentX** where
    **X** is the student number that was assigned to you.

2.  On **MAS-HOST1**, navigate to **C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module04\\** and copy
    the **Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample** folder to
    **C:\\StudentX.**

3.  Rename the **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample
    \\SimpleVMTemplate** folder to **Contoso.StockCheck**.

4.  Navigate to the **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
    Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck\\strings** folder and right-click the
    **resources.json** file, and then click **Open with**, and then click
    **Notepad**.

5.  Edit the third, fourth and fifth lines as shown below:

```
"summary": "Check stock availability and price",
```
```
"longSummary": "This application can be used to check availability of
    Contoso's stock and also get an up-to-date price on each stock item",
```
```
"description": "This application can be used to check availability of
    Contoso's stock and also get an up-to-date price on each stock item",
```

6.  Save and close the **resources.resjson** file.

7. Navigate to the **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
    Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck** folder and right-click the **manifest.json**
    file and then click **Open with,** and then click **Notepad**.

8. Edit the lines as shown below:

```
"name": "StockCheckX",
```
```
"publisher": "ContosoX",
```
```
"categories":[
    "ContosoX"
    ]
```

9. Replace **X** in **Step 8** with your Student number.

10. Save and close the **manifest.json** file.

####   Task 2: Package the new Marketplace Item

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, right-click **Start** and then click **Command prompt
    (Admin).**

2.  Click **Yes** on the **User Account Control** window that opens.

3.  In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window that opens navigate to
    **C:\\StudentX\\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
    Sample\\AzureGalleryPackageGenerator**

4.  Type the following command and then press enter on the keyboard:

```
AzureGalleryPackager.exe package -m "C:\StudentX\Azure Stack Marketplace Item
Generator and Sample\Contoso.StockCheck\manifest.json" -o 
"C:\StudentX\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
Sample\Contoso.StockCheck"
```

5.  Close the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window.

6.  Navigate to **C:\\StudentX**\\**Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and
    Sample\\Contoso.StockCheck** and confirm the
    **ContosoX.StockCheckX.1.0.0.azpkg** file is present.

####   Task 3: Publish the Marketplace Item in Azure Stack

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start** then right-click **Windows PowerShell**
    and then **click Run as Administrator**.

2.  If a **User Account Control** window opens, click **Yes**.

3.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window that opens type the
    following commands pressing enter after each command:
    
**NOTE:  Be sure to replace X with your student number**

```
Import-Module C:\AzureStack-Tools-master\Connect\\AzureStack.Connect.psm1
```

```
Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStackAdminX -ArmEndpoint "https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external"
```

```
$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force
```

```
$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential("AzureStack\AzureStackAdminX", $Password)
```

```
$tenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStackAdminX
```

4.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to Azure
    Stack:
    
**NOTE:  Be sure to replace X with your student number**

```
Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName "AzureStackAdminX" -TenantId $tenantID -Credential $Cred
```

5.  If a **Select Y to enable data collection [Y/N]** prompt opens, type **N**
    and then press enter.

6.  Type the following commands pressing enter after each command:

**NOTE:  Be sure to replace X with your student number**

```
$subscriptionid = (Get-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionName 'Default Provider Subscription').SubscriptionId
```

```
Select-AzureRMSubscription -SubscriptionID $Subscriptionid
```

```
New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name azurestackX -Location local
```

```
New-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName azurestackX -Name azurestackstorageX -Type Standard_LRS -location local
```

```
Set-AzureRMCurrentStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName azurestackX -StorageAccountName azurestackstorageX
```

```
$StorageAccount = Get-AzureRmStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName azurestackX -Name azurestackstorageX
```

```
$GalleryContainer = New-AzureStorageContainer -Name gallery -Permission Blob -Context $StorageAccount.Context
```

```
$AzureStackPackage = $GalleryContainer | Set-AzureStorageBlobContent -File "C:\StudentX\Azure Stack Marketplace Item Generator and Sample\Contoso.StockCheck\ContosoX.StockCheckX.1.0.0.azpkg"
```

```
Add-AzSGalleryItem -GalleryItemUri $AzureStackPackage.ICloudBlob.StorageUri.PrimaryUri.AbsoluteUri
```

7.  After entering the final command, you should receive a **Status Code** of
    **Created**.

8.  Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window.

####   Task 4: Confirm the new Marketplace Item is available in the Azure Stack Portal

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

-   Username: AzureStack\\**AzureStackAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration,** page that opens, click
    **New**

5.  Notice the new **ContosoX** Marketplace** item is now displayed.

6.  Click **ContosoX** and review the information provided in the ContosoX blade
    that opens.

7.  Close the **Azure Stack Portal**.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have created a new Marketplace item
for Contoso’s StockCheck application. You should have also published the
Marketplace item in Azure Stack. Finally, you should have confirmed that tenants
can select the new Marketplace item when they sign into the Azure Stack Portal.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
