Module 3: Deploying Microsoft Azure Stack

Lab: Confirming prerequisites and installing Microsoft Azure Stack
------------------------------------------------------------------

Scenario

Contoso Corporation have decided to deploy an Azure Stack Development Kit
environment to determine its capabilities and how best they would be able to use
Azure Stack.

The IT team at Contoso has been given a server to host the Azure Stack
Development Kit deployment and has been tasked with ensuring it meets the
requirements. After confirming this, the IT team must deploy the Azure Stack
Development Kit and ensure it is functioning.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Ensure a host meets the requirements for an Azure Stack Development Kit
    deployment.

-   Ensure the deployment of an Azure Stack Development Kit is successful.

-   Understand how Validation as a Service works.

Lab Setup

**Estimated Time:** 30 Minutes

**Host Computer** MAS-HOST01

**User Name:** AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

**Virtual Machines:** All Azure Stack VMs and AzS-RDP01.

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Ensure a host meets the requirements for an Azure Stack Development Kit
    deployment.

-   Ensure the deployment of an Azure Stack Development Kit is successful.

-   Understand how Validation as a Service works.

### Exercise 1: Confirming the Prerequisites

Scenario

Contoso must check the server they have been given meets all the requirements as
it is not one of the integrated systems from an approved OEM. You must verify
the following items

-   CPU support

-   Number and type of drives

-   Amount of memory

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Confirm the CPU meets the requirements

2.  Confirm the number of drives

3.  Confirm the quantity of memory

####   Task 1: Confirm the CPU meets the requirements

| Location | Value                          |
|----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                 |
| Tool     | **Windows PowerShell Console** |
| Location | **Start**                      |
| Options  | **Run as administrator**       |

1.  In an elevated **PowerShell** console run the following PowerShell command:

>   Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor -Property Name,
>   SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions, VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled,
>   VMMonitorModeExtensions \|

>   Format-List Name, SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions,
>   VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled, VMMonitorModeExtensions

1.  Review the values returned for the following paramters:

    -   SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions

    -   VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled

    -   VMMonitorModeExtensions

2.  Run the following PowerShell command:

>   (Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor).Count

1.  Ensure the number returned is **2** or higher.

2.  Run the following PowerShell command:

Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor -Property Name, SocketDesignation,
NumberOfCores, NumberOfEnabledCore, NumberOfLogicalProcessors \| Format-List
Name, SocketDesignation, NumberOfCores, NumberOfEnabledCore,
NumberOfLogicalProcessors

1.  Ensure the **NumberOfCores** for each CPU returned is **6** or higher

2.  Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console open

####   Task 2: Confirm the number of drives

| Location | Value                          |
|----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                 |
| Tool     | **Windows PowerShell Console** |
| Location | **Start**                      |
| Options  | **Run as administrator**       |

1.  In the elevated **PowerShell** console on MAS-HOST01, run the following
    **PowerShell** command:

>   \$DiskIndexes = Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_DiskPartition \|
>   Where-Object -FilterScript {\$_.BootPartition -eq \$true} \| Select-Object
>   -ExpandProperty DiskIndex

1.  This will obtain the Disk Index of the disk partitions that are part of the
    boot process, whether they be VHDX file or physical disk.

2.  Enter the following PowerShell command to see the Disk Indexes and press
    enter:

>   \$DiskIndexes

1.  Run the following PowerShell command:

>   Get-PhysicalDisk \| Where-Object -FilterScript {\$DiskIndexes -notcontains
>   \$*.DeviceID} \| Format-Table FriendlyName, OperationalStatus, HealthStatus,
>   \@{Name="Size";Expression={(\$*.Size / 1GB).ToString() + " GB"}}

1.  This shows the disks that are not part of the operating system boot process.
    You should have at least 4 disks listed.

####   Task 3: Confirm the quantity of memory

| Location | Value                          |
|----------|--------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                 |
| Tool     | **Windows PowerShell Console** |
| Location | **Start**                      |
| Options  | **Run as administrator**       |

1.  In an elevated **PowerShell** console on **MAS-HOST01** run the following
    **PowerShell** command:

>   \$Memory = (Get-Ciminstance Win32_OperatingSystem \| Select-Object
>   -ExpandProperty MaxProcessMemorySize) /1GB

1.  Enter the following **PowerShell** command to see the amount of memory
    installed and press enter:

>   \$Memory

1.  To round the number, enter the following **PowerShell** command and press
    enter:

[math]::Round(\$Memory,0)

1.  This will display the amount of memory in **GB**.

2.  Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have confirmed the hardware on
which the Azure Stack Development Kit is to be deployed meets the prerequisites.

### Exercise 2: Confirm the installation was successful

Scenario

The installation of the Azure Stack Development Kit has been completed. However,
due to the time it takes to install, the installation was performed overnight.
Contoso now wants to ensure the installation was successful so that they can
begin assessing Azure Stack.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Connect to Azure Stack

2.  Ensure both the User and Operator Portals are functioning

3.  Ensure no critical alerts are present in Azure Stack

####   Task 1: Connect to Azure Stack

| Location | Value                         |
|----------|-------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                |
| Tool     | **Remote Desktop Connection** |
| VM       | **AzS-RDP01**                 |

1.  Open a **Remote Desktop Connection** to **AzS-RDP01** and sign-in using the
    following credentials:

    -   Username: **.\\CloudAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Open an elevated **Windows PowerShell** window and then connect to **Azure
    Stack** by running the following commands:

>   Set-Location C:\\Media\\LabSetupScripts

-   .\\ConnectVPN.ps1

1.  Accept any prompts that are displayed

2.  After connecting to **Azure Stack**, close the **Windows PowerShell** window

####   Task 2: Ensure both the User and Operator Portals are functioning

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **AzS-RDP01**                                     |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                             |
| URL      | **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  Open **Internet Explore**r on **AzS-RDP01** and browse to
    **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

2.  Sign-in to Azure Stack using the following credentials

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

3.  From the **More Services** blade, navigate to **Resource provider
    manifests** and ensure the six default Resource Provider Manifests are
    listed:

    -   Microsoft.Compute—local--admin

    -   Microsoft.SQLAdapter

    -   Microsoft.Web.Admin

    -   Microsoft.Network—local--admin

    -   Microsoft.KeyVault—local—admin

    -   Microsoft.Storage—local--admin

4.  Open a new tab in **Internet Explorer** and browse to
    **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

5.  Open **More Services** and confirm the following Services are listed:

    -   Dashboard

    -   Resource groups

    -   All resources

    -   Tags

    -   Recent

    -   Subscriptions

    -   Marketplace

    -   Resource explorer

    -   Portal settings

    -   Audit logs

6.  Close the **https://portal.local.azurestack.external** tab that was opened

####   Task 3: Ensure no critical alerts are present in Azure Stack

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **AzS-RDP01**                                     |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                             |
| URL      | **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** operator portal on
    **AzS-RDP01**, open **More Services** and then open **Region Management**

2.  Open the **Overview** tab and then review the following sections and confirm
    there are no **Critical** alerts displayed:

    -   Alerts

    -   Update

    -   Resource Providers

    -   Infrastructure Roles

3.  Sign-out of the **Azure Stack Operator** Portal and then close **Internet
    Explorer**

**Results**: After this exercise is complete, you will be able to determine if
the Azure Stack Development Kit has been successfully installed and is operating
as required.

>   **Question**: How many CPUs must be present in the Azure Stack host for you
>   to deploy the Azure Stack Development Kit?

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
