Module 2: Foundational Components of Microsoft Azure Stack
==========================================================

Lab: Reviewing the Azure Stack Infrastructure
=============================================

### Scenario

The IT team members need to familiarize themselves with the Azure Stack
infrastructure, which will help them troubleshoot problems with the
environment should any arise. Infrastructure components include:

-   AD DS.

-   Storage Spaces

-   Network Controller

-   Software Load Balancer

### Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

-   Review Azure Stack Active Directory.

-   Review Azure Stack Storage Spaces.

-   Review Azure Stack Network Controller.

-   Review Azure Stack Software Load Balancer.

### Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 30 minutes

-   Host Computer: **MAS-HOST01**

-   User Name: **Azurestack\\AzurestackAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

Exercise 1: Reviewing the Azure Stack Infrastructure Components
---------------------------------------------------------------

### Scenario

[]{#task-1-sign-in-to-the-preview-portal .anchor}The Azure Stack
infrastructure is comprised of a number of virtual machines. Most of the
administrative tools for the infrastructure components have been
installed on the Hyper-V host computers. You must use these tools to
confirm the availability of each Azure Stack component.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Azure Stack Active Directory

2.  Azure Stack Storage Spaces

3.  Azure Stack Network Controller

4.  Azure Stack Software Load Balancer

#### Task 1: Azure Stack Active Directory

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information shown below.

-   Computer: **MAS-HOST01**

-   Tool: **Active Directory Users and Computers**

-   Location: **Start\\Administrative Tools**

-   Organizational Unit (OU): **Users**

1.  In Active Directory Users and Computers review the Azure Stack
    objects in the following OUs:

-   Users

-   Managed Service Accounts

-   Service Principals.

-   Computers

-   Domain Controllers

#### Task 2: View a blade

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information shown below.

1.  Open the Browse panel, and then click Portal settings.

2.  View the Portal Settings blade.

> []{#task-3-begin-a-journey .anchor}**Results**: After completing this
> exercise, you will have viewed blades, journeys, and journey parts.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document
(including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
**not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This
document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual
property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document
for your internal, reference purposes.\
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
