Module 3: Deploying Microsoft Azure Stack

Lab: Confirming prerequisites and installing Microsoft Azure Stack

### Exercise 1: Confirming the Prerequisites

####   Task 1: Confirm the CPU meets the requirements

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start**, then right-click **Windows PowerShell
    a**nd then More, then click **Run as administrator**.

2.  In the **User Account Control** dialog, click **Yes**

3.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console enter the following
    PowerShell command and press Enter:

Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor -Property Name,
SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions, VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled,
VMMonitorModeExtensions \|

Format-List Name, SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions,
VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled, VMMonitorModeExtensions

4.  In the information that is returned, review the following:

    -   SecondLevelAddressTranslationExtensions

    -   VirtualizationFirmwareEnabled

    -   VMMonitorModeExtensions

5.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

(Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor).Count

6.  Ensure the number returned is **2** or higher.

7.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_Processor -Property Name, SocketDesignation,
NumberOfCores, NumberOfEnabledCore, NumberOfLogicalProcessors \| Format-List
Name, SocketDesignation, NumberOfCores, NumberOfEnabledCore,
NumberOfLogicalProcessors

8.  Ensure the **NumberOfCores** for each CPU returned is **6** or higher.

9.  Leave the **Administrator: Windows PowerShel**l Console open.

####   Task 2: Confirm the number of drives

1.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console on **MAS-HOST01** enter
    the following **PowerShell** command and press Enter:

\$DiskIndexes = Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_DiskPartition \| Where-Object
-FilterScript {\$_.BootPartition -eq \$true} \| Select-Object -ExpandProperty
DiskIndex

2.  This will obtain the Disk Index of the disk partitions that are part of the
    boot process, whether they be VHDX file or physical disk.

3.  Enter the following **PowerShell** command to see the Disk Indexes and press
    enter:

\$DiskIndexes

4.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

Get-PhysicalDisk \| Where-Object -FilterScript {\$DiskIndexes -notcontains
\$*.DeviceID} \| Format-Table FriendlyName, OperationalStatus, HealthStatus,
\@{Name="Size";Expression={(\$*.Size / 1GB).ToString() + " GB"}}

5.  This shows the disks that are not part of the operating system boot process.
    You should have at least 4 disks listed.

####   Task 3: Confirm the quantity of memory

1.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console on MAS-HOST01 enter the
    following **PowerShell** command and press Enter:

\$Memory = (Get-Ciminstance Win32_OperatingSystem \| Select-Object
-ExpandProperty MaxProcessMemorySize) /1GB

2.  Enter the following **PowerShell** command to see the amount of memory
    installed and press enter:

\$Memory

3.  To round the number, enter the following **PowerShell** command and press
    enter:
    
**[math]::Round($Memory,0)**

4.  This will display the amount of memory in GB.

5.  Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window.

**Results**: After this exercise, you should have confirmed the hardware on
which the Azure Stack Development Kit is to be deployed meets the prerequisites.

### Exercise 2: Confirm the installation was successful

####   Task 1: Connect to Azure Stack

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click Start, then click **Remote Desktop Connection**.

2.  In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window that opens, type **AzS-RDP01**
    in the **Computer** box and then click **Connect**.

3.  In the **Windows Security** window that opens, click **More Choices** and
    then click **Use a different account**.

4.  Type **.\\CloudAdminX** in the **User name** box.

5.  Type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Password** box and then click **OK**.

6.  If a **Remote Desktop Connection** prompt appears, click **Yes**.

7.  After logging into **AzS-RDP01** click **Start**, then right-click **Windows
    PowerShell** and then click **Run as administrator**.

8.  In the **User Account Control** window that opens, click **Yes**.

9.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window that opens, type the
    following command and then press enter:

Set-Location C:\\Media\\LabSetupScripts

10.  Type the following command and then press enter:

.\\ConnectVPN.ps1

11.  In the **WinRM Security Configuration** prompt that appears, type **Y** and
    then press enter.

12.  If a **Security Certificate** prompt appears, click **Yes**.

13.  When the command completes type **Exit** in the PowerShell window and then
    press enter.

####   Task 2: Ensure both the User and Operator Portals are functioning

1.  On **AzS-RDP01**, open **Internet Explorer.**

2.  Browse to **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external**

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\CloudAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration**, page that opens, click
    **More Services**.

5.  Under **Administrative Resources** click **Resource provider manifests.**

6.  In the **Resource provider manifests** blade, ensure the following
    **Resource Provider Manifests** are listed:

    -   Microsoft.Compute—local--admin

    -   Microsoft.SQLAdapter

    -   Microsoft.Web.Admin

    -   Microsoft.Network—local--admin

    -   Microsoft.KeyVault—local—admin

    -   Microsoft.Storage—local--admin

7.  Open a new tab in **Internet Explorer** and browse to
    **https://portal.local.azurestack.external**

8.  In the navigation pane, click **More services**.

9.  Confirm the list of **Services** returned include the following:

    -   Dashboard

    -   Resource groups

    -   All resources

    -   Tags

    -   Recent

    -   Subscriptions

    -   Marketplace

    -   Resource explorer

    -   Portal settings

    -   Audit logs

10.  Close the **https://portal.local.azurestack.external** tab that was opened.

####   Task 3: Ensure no critical alerts are present in Azure Stack

1.  In the **Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration** portal on **AzS-RDP01**,
    click **More services**.

2.  Under **Administration** click **Region Management**.

3.  In the **local** blade that opens, click the **Overview** tab.

4.  Review the following sections and confirm there are no **Critical** alerts
    displayed:

    -   Alerts

    -   Update

    -   Resource Providers

    -   Infrastructure Roles

5.  Sign-out of the **Azure Stack Operator** Portal and then close **Internet
    Explorer**.

**Results**: After this exercise is complete, you will be able to determine if
the Azure Stack Development Kit has been successfully installed and is operating
as required.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
