Module 5: Microsoft Azure Stack and DevOps

Lab: Debugging and Deploying ARM Templates

### Exercise 1: Using Windows PowerShell to obtain API versions

####   Task 1: Obtaining the Microsoft.Compute and Microsoft.Storage API versions

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start**.

2.  Navigate to **Windows PowerShell**.

3.  Right-click **Windows PowerShell**.

4.  Navigate to **More \| Run as administrator**.

5.  In the **User Account Control** dialog, click **Yes**.

6.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** Console, enter the following
    PowerShell command and press Enter to import the required PowerShell Module:

**NOTE:  Be sure to replace X with your student number.**

```
Import-Module C:\AzureStack-Tools-master\Connect\AzureStack.Connect.psm1
```

7.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration and add the Azure Administration environment to
    PowerShell. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

```
$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force
```

```
$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential("AzureStack\AzureStackAdminX", $Password)
```

```
Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStackAdminX -ArmEndpoint "https://adminmanagement.local.azurestack.external"
```

```
$tenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStackAdminX
```

8.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to the
    Tenant environment:

```
Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName AzureStackAdminX -TenantId $tenantID -Credential $Cred
```

9.  Enter the following PowerShell command to return the Subscriptions that are
    associated with the Tenant environment and press Enter:

```
Get-AzureRmSubscription
```

10.  In the returned information ensure the value of **SubscriptionName** is
    **Default Provider Subscription**.

11.  Enter the following PowerShell and press Enter to return the
    Microsoft.Compute API’s that are available:

```
(Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute).ResourceTypes | 
Where-Object -Property ResourceTypeName -EQ -Value virtualMachines |
Select-Object -ExpandProperty ApiVersions
```

12.  Enter the following PowerShell and press Enter to return the
    Microsoft.Storage API’s that are available:

```
(Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Storage).ResourceTypes | 
Where-Object -Property ResourceTypeName -EQ -Value storageaccounts |
Select-Object -ExpandProperty ApiVersions
```

13.  Close the **Windows PowerShell** Console.

**Results**: After completing this lab, you will be able to: Install AzureRM and
Azure Stack PowerShell from the NuGet repository. Configure Azure PowerShell to
connect to Azure Stack.

### Exercise 2: Debug an ARM Template with Visual Studio

####   Task 1: Debug the ARM Template

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, copy the **C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module05** folder to the
    **C:\\StudentX** folder.

2.  Click **Start**.

3.  Type **Visual Studio**.

4.  Right-click **Visual Studio 2015** and then click **Run as Administrator**.

5.  If a **User Account Control** window appears, click **Yes**.

6.  In the **Sign in to Visual Studio** dialog, click **Not now, maybe later**.

7.  Click **Start Visual Studio**.

8.  On the menu bar, click **File**

9.  Navigate to **Open**, then click **Project/Solution**

10. In **Open Project** dialog, navigate to
    **C:\\StudentX\\Module05\\VirtualNetwork**

11. Select the **VirtualNetwork.deployproj** file and click **Open**

12. Click the **File** menu and then click **Save All.**

13. If prompted, accept the default location and then click **Save**.

14. In the **Solution Explorer** pane, double-click **azuredeploy.json**

15. If an **Update Available** window appears, click **Not Now**.

16. In the **azuredeploy.json** central pane, navigate to **line 81**

17. Change the content of line 81 from:

```
"location": "[variables('AzureRegion')]",
```
To
```
"location": "[parameters('AzureRegion')]",
```

18.  Click **Save** on the toolbar

18.  The **Template** is now valid.

20.  Do not close **Visual Studio**.

####   Task 2: Review and update the Parameters File and validate the ARM template

1.  In **Visual Studio** on **MAS-HOST01**, from the **Solution Explorer**,
    double click **azuredeploy.parameters.json**.

2.  In the central pane change the contents of the file from by adding the
    **EnvironmentName** parameter as shown below:
```
{
 "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentParameters.json\#",
 "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
  "parameters": {
   "DeploymentDate": {
     "value": "2017-02-07"
    }
  }
}
``` 

to

```
{
  "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentParameters.json\#",
  "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
   "parameters": {
     "DeploymentDate": {
      "value": "2017-02-07"
      },
     "EnvironmentName": {
      "value": "QA"
     }
   }
}
```

3.  From the toolbar, click the **Save** button.

4.  Close **Visual Studio**.

5.  Click **Start.**

6.  Navigate to **Windows PowerShell**

7.  Click **Windows PowerShell**

8.  In the **Windows PowerShell** Console enter the following PowerShell command
    and press Enter:

**NOTE:  Be sure to replace X with your student number.  
```
Import-Module C:\AzureStack-Tools-master\Connect\AzureStack.Connect.psm1
```

9.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

```
Set-Location "C:\StudentX\Module05\VirtualNetwork"
```

10.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration and add the Azure Administration environment to
    PowerShell. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

```
$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force
```

```
$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential("AzureStack\ASUserX", $Password)
```

```
Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStack -ArmEndpoint "https://management.local.azurestack.external"
```

```
$tenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStack
```

11.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to the
    Tenant environment:
    
```
Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName AzureStack -TenantId $tenantID -Credential $Cred
```

12.  Enter the following PowerShell command to return the Subscriptions that are
    associated with the Tenant environment and press Enter:

```
Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionName “ASUserX Subscription”
```

13.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter:

```
New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name “RG-VNetX” -Location local
```

**Note:  Run the following on a single line.**

```
Test-AzureRmResourceGroupDeployment -ResourceGroupName RG-VNetX -TemplateFile .\azuredeploy.json -TemplateParameterFile .\azuredeploy.parameters.json -Mode Incremental -Verbose
```

14.  Close the **Window PowerShell c**onsole.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to debug ARM
Templates in Visual Studio, review and update parameter files for deployments
and validate ARM Templates prior to deployment.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

is document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
