Module 9: Licensing Microsoft Azure Stack and Billing Tenants

Lab: Obtaining Usage Information

### Exercise 1: Obtaining tenant and Azure Stack usage

####   Task 1: Extracting Tenant Usage from Azure Stack using PowerShell

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, click **Start**.

2.  Navigate to **Windows PowerShell**.

3.  Right-click **Windows PowerShell**.

4.  Navigate to **More \| Run as administrator**.

5.  In the **User Account Control** dialog, click **Yes**.

6.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** enter the following PowerShell
    command and press Enter to import the required PowerShell Module:

```
Import-Module C:\AzureStack-Tools-master\Connect\AzureStack.Connect.psm1
```

7.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

```
$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force

Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStack -ArmEndpoint https://management.local.azurestack.external

$TenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStack
```

8.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to create a
    PowerShell credential object to login to Azure Stack with:

```
$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential("AzureStack\ASUserX", $Password)
```

9.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to Azure
    Stack:

```
Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName "AzureStack" -TenantId $TenantID -Credential $Cred
```

10.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter after each command:

```
Set-Location C:\Media\ModuleFiles\Module09

.\Get-TenantUsage.ps1
```

11.  Provide a start date of 5 days ago and an end date of yesterday.

12.  Review the **Hourly** usage information that is returned. Note that to
    determine the resource used you must reference the **MeterID** returned with
    the table provided in the **Tenant Based Usage** topic in this module.

13.  Close the **Windows PowerShell** window.

####   Task 2: Reviewing Azure Stack resource consumption

1.  On **MAS-HOST01**, open **Internet Explorer**.

2.  Browse to https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external

3.  Sign into **Azure Stack** with the following credentials:

    -   Username: **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX**

    -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

4.  In the Microsoft Azure Stack - Administration, page that opens, click More
    Services.

5.  Under the Administration section, click Region Management.

6.  In the **local** blade that opens, review the following information:

    -   Alerts

    -   Updates

    -   Resource Providers

    -   Infrastructure Roles

7.  From the navigation pane, under **Infrastructure Resources**, click
    **Capacity**.

8.  In the **local – Capacity** blade that opens, review the following
    information:

    -   Alerts

    -   Scale Units

    -   Physical storage

    -   Physical memory

    -   Public IP pools usage

9.  From the navigation pane, click **Scale Units**.

10.  In the **local – Scale units** blade that opens, click **S-Cluster**.

11.  In the **S-Cluster** blade that opens, review the following information:

    -   Region

    -   Total logical cores

    -   Type

    -   Total memory

12.  From the navigation pane, under **Tenant Resources**, click **Storage
    accounts**.

13.  Review the information provided in the **local – Storage accounts** blade
    that opens.

14.  From the navigation pane, under **Tenant Resources**, click **Virtual
    networks**.

15.  Review the information provided in the **local – Virtual networks** blade
    that opens.

16.  Close the Microsoft **Azure Stack - Administration** portal.

17.  Close all open windows.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to: Obtain Tenant
usage information in Azure Stack using PowerShell. Obtain Azure Stack resource
consumption by using the Administration portal.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons Attribution
3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are
not included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft
product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference
purposes.

is document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the
information provided here.
