Module 9: Licensing Microsoft Azure Stack and Billing Tenants

Lab: Obtaining Usage Information
--------------------------------

Scenario

In order to accurately bill customers for usage of resources in Azure Stack you
must use Azure PowerShell to retrieve usage information for tenants. Many
resources have been provisioned in Azure Stack such as virtual machines,
storage, networking etc. You must obtain usage information in order to provide
chargeback reports to your customers. In addition, you need to understand the
resources used by Azure Stack on a regional basis. You can use the Azure Stack
Administration portal to facilitate this.

Objectives

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Obtain Tenant usage information from Azure Stack.

-   Obtain Azure Stack usage by using the Azure Stack portal.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 30 minutes

**Host Computer:** MAS-HOST01

**User Name:** AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX

**Password:** Pa55w.rd

**Azure Stack Public Portal**: https://public.local.azurestack.external

**User Name**: AzureStack\\AsUserX

**Password**: Pa55w.rd

After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Obtain Tenant usage information from Azure Stack.

-   Obtain Azure Stack usage by using the Azure Stack portal.

### Exercise 1: Obtaining tenant and Azure Stack usage

Scenario

You need to provide customers with an accurate chargeback report that includes
usage information for the last 30 days. An aggregated report for hourly and
daily usage should be provided that shows all resources provisioned in Azure
Stack by the customer. You also need to review resource usage in Azure Stack by
using the Azure Stack Administration Portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Extracting Tenant Usage from Azure Stack using PowerShell

2. Reviewing Azure Stack resource consumption

####   Task 1: Extracting Tenant Usage from Azure Stack using PowerShell

| Location | Value                                  |
|----------|----------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                         |
| Tool     | **Windows PowerShell (Administrator)** |
| Location | **Start**                              |

1.  Open an elevated **Windows PowerShel**l console on **MAS-HOST01**

2.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** enter the following PowerShell
    command and press Enter to import the required PowerShell Module:

Import-Module C:\\AzureStack-Tools-master\\Connect\\AzureStack.Connect.psm1

1.  Enter the following PowerShell commands to obtain the GUID for the Active
    Directory registration. Press Enter at the end of each PowerShell command:

\$Password = ConvertTo-SecureString "Pa55w.rd" -AsPlainText -Force

Add-AzureRmEnvironment -Name AzureStack -ArmEndpoint
https://management.local.azurestack.external

\$TenantID = Get-AzsDirectoryTenantID -ADFS -EnvironmentName AzureStack

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to create a
    PowerShell credential object to login to Azure Stack with:

\$Cred = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential
("AzureStack\\ASUserX", \$Password)

1.  Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter to login to Azure
    Stack:

Login-AzureRmAccount -EnvironmentName "AzureStack" -TenantId \$TenantID
-Credential \$Cred

1.  Ent Enter the following PowerShell command and press Enter after each
    command:

Set-Location C:\\Media\\ModuleFiles\\Module09

.\\Get-TenantUsage.ps1

1.  Provide a start date of 5 days ago and an end date of yesterday.

2.  Review the **Hourly** usage information that is returned. Note that to
    determine the resource used you must reference the **MeterID** returned with
    the table provided in the **Tenant Based Usage** topic in this module

3.  Close the **Windows PowerShell** window

####   Task 2: Reviewing Azure Stack resource consumption

To perform this task, use the computer and tool information in the following
table.

| Location | Value                                             |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Computer | **MAS-HOST01**                                    |
| Tool     | **Internet Explorer**                             |
| URL      | **https://adminportal.local.azurestack.external** |

1.  Sign into the **Azure Stack** Portal with the following credentials:

-   Username: **AzureStack\\AzureStackAdminX**

-   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1.  From **More Services**, open **Region Management** and review the following
    information provided:

    -   Alerts

    -   Updates

    -   Resource Providers

    -   Infrastructure Roles

2.  Open the **Capacity** blade and review the following information:

    -   Alerts

    -   Scale Units

    -   Physical storage

    -   Physical memory

    -   Public IP pools usage

3.  Open the **Scale units** blade and then open **S-Cluster** and review the
    following information:

    -   Region

    -   Total logical cores

    -   Type

    -   Total memory

4.  Under **Tenant Resources** review the information provided for the
    following:

    -   Storage accounts

    -   Virtual networks

5.  Close the Microsoft Azure Stack – Administration portal

6.  Close all open windows

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will be able to: Obtain Tenant
usage information in Azure Stack using PowerShell. Obtain Azure Stack resource
consumption by using the Administration portal.

>   **Question:** How do you determine what resources have been consumed after
>   extracting usage data from Azure Stack?

>   ©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

>   The text in this document is available under the Creative Commons
>   Attribution 3.0 License, additional terms may apply. All other content
>   contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks,
>   logos, images, etc.) are not included within the Creative Commons license
>   grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
>   intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this
>   document for your internal, reference purposes.

>   This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this
>   document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change
>   without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for
>   illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or
>   inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to
>   the information provided here.
